---
layout: post
title: My Path as a Developer
feature-img: "img/sample_feature_img.png"
---

I've worked in startups for the past 8 years. I started at CustomMade in support. I was the only support guy in a small team of 8 employees. I loved efficiency and automation and I think this is why I was drawn to coding. I started writing scripts to automate tedious tasks like doing MySQL lookups, generating customizable boilerplate responses, customizing Zendesk behavior/UI, and pulling data via different APIs. I started becoming the guy you would see if you needed something automated or you needed to get specific data. After a few years in support, this role became a little more formalized and I became an analyst. I would do queries with MySQL/Mongo and shape/visualize the data with Python libraries (Pandas and Plotly). My last few years at CustomMade I worked in QA doing a combination of automated and manual testing. I would script browser interaction using Python WebDriver (selenium) to test site functionality across different browsers and devices.

From CustomMade, I moved to Wayfair for a year where I was a Software Engineer II. My job involved monitoring site health in Storefront Stability, but as part of the ramp up, I was thrown into the codebase fixing bugs in Wayfair's homegrown MVC. It touched on a lot of parts of the stack: PHP, SQL, and JavaScript. I also created a set of acceptance tests for checkout with Codeception (PHP). This was my first extensive use of Git and working with a community of developers who reviewed my code. I felt like I learned a ton, and successfully fixed a lot of bugs, but at the same time I probably could've benefitted from a more structured foundation in web development.

My last job, I worked for a tiny startup called Civera. It was just me and my good friend Adam who served as a mentor. He gave me a lot of time to learn. I pored over CakePHP documentation and finished Code Academy HTML, CSS, SASS and JavaScript courses. He also reviewed my work and helped me build pages better. A number of his sites were built with PHP, CakePHP and MySQL. I built out a lot of admin pages using CakePHP and Bootstrap. In some cases I had to customize the behavior of bootstrap widgets using JavaScript. I converted his old frontend search page to Bootstrap. Aside from the work with web development, I created the sophisticated distributed scraper that I described above and wrote a number of Python document converters to parse historical election data PDFs and merge them into a format that could be imported into his sites.

